# Carted: An Online Shopping Center
#### Video Demo:  <URL https://youtu.be/kSnckQuBwn8>
#### Description:
My project is Carted: An Online Shopping Center. My project is a full-stack web application which allows users to create an account buy items, checkout or delete them from her cart, check order history and contact the website if their is an issue. For my project I used Python, Flask, Html, CSS, SQLite and the Bootstrap framework. I will first describe my Python code, then Html, Flask, Bootstrap and CSS, and my SQLite database. For reference a lot of specific explanations can be found within comments in the code or in the case of the SQLite database can be found in the SQLitedb_explanation text file.

For my main python code (app.py) I used a session in flask to recognize a user when they login and logout of my website. Additionally, I designed several routes to connection my Html with backend Python code. My login, logout, and register route are fairly self-explanatory, however it is important to note with the register page a user must have a username not in the database and a password with a capital letter and special character that is at least 7 characters for security purposes. These pages take both get and post requests, the get requests simply rendering templates and post requests perform interactions with the SQLite database such as registering users in the database and checking information in the database upon login. My / route is a page used to describe the outline of the company's outlook through a get request render template. The /shop and /deals routes use post requests to get the quantity and price of an item and add them to a users cart in the SQLite database. Upon a get request the templates are rendered. The /contact route is a basic contact page that if the user decides to input information into the text field, will get sent into the SQLite database through Python with the type of complaint included through a post request, again the get request returns a template. The /cart route removes data from the database through a post request. The /cart and /orders page use get requests to retrieve information from the respective cart and orders tables to send them to the Html page to be displayed. Additionally the helpers.py file holds some basic functions I used in my main python file which were imported over.

The Html pages are all additions to a basic layout page with a navbar used through Bootstrap and Flask's Jinja syntax to adjust the navbar based on whether the user is logged in or not. CSS was used here to ensure the background image was adjusted to fit the user page and basic text color conversions. The apology page displays an seal with an error message if users have done something unintended by the website, and will guide the user on what to do. The login, logout, and register pages use form, input and button tags to retrieve information from the user so the Python file can use the information to interact with the SQLite database. The shop and deals Html pages use form, img, input, and button tags to send information to the main Python file of what a user has bought. The orders and cart Html pages use table tags and the information given to them through the main Python file to display tables of what is in the users cart or orders the user has transacted. The contact page has form, textarea select, and button tags to provide user complaints to the main Python file to be inputted into the SQLite database. For reference all of my pages used Bootstrap and CSS to make the pages look a bit nicer (again specifics in the Html pages).

Lastly my SQLite database (as a general description) has a users table to store user data, a complaints table to store user feedback, a cart table to store what's in the users cart and an orders table to show the users purchase history.

I debated some style ideas mostly going for simplistic designs to make the user feel comfortable and at home on the website. Additionally, I considered putting more information in the orders table for more user interaction, however I felt that if users forgot the information they could get it through contacting us. Other than that I didn't have too many specific design choices I heavily debated.

I want to thank everyone who helped to create the CS50x class and professor Malan because without their help I wouldn't have felt confident to switch to a C.S. major and pursue my dreams of being a full-stack software engineer.

I've loved every part of the CS50 course and can't wait to go further in my coding journey. This was CS50!
